---
name: ASE2016
date: 2016-09-01
type: journal
authors: Christoforos Zolotas, Themistoklis Diamantopoulos, Kyriakos Chatzidimitriou and Andreas Symeonidis
title: 'From requirements to source code: a Model-Driven Engineering approach for RESTful web services'
journal: Automated Software Engineering
volume: 24
number: 4
pages: 791-838
preprint: http://issel.ee.auth.gr/wp-content/uploads/2016/09/ReqsToCodeMDE.pdf
bibtex: ASE2016.bib
---

During the last few years, the REST architectural style has drastically changed
the way web services are developed. Due to its transparent resource-oriented model,
the RESTful paradigm has been incorporated into several development frameworks that
allow rapid development and aspire to automate parts of the development process.
However, most of the frameworks lack automation of essential web service functionality,
such as authentication or database searching, while the end product is usually not
fully compliant to REST. Furthermore, most frameworks rely heavily on domain specific
modeling and require developers to be familiar with the employed modeling technologies.
In this paper, we present a Model-Driven Engineering (MDE) engine that supports fast
design and implementation of web services with advanced functionality. Our engine provides
a front-end interface that allows developers to design their envisioned system through
software requirements in multimodal formats. Input in the form of textual requirements
and graphical storyboards is analyzed using natural language processing techniques and
semantics, to semi-automatically construct the input model for the MDE engine. The engine
subsequently applies model-to-model transformations to produce a RESTful, ready-to-deploy
web service. The procedure is traceable, ensuring that changes in software requirements
propagate to the underlying software artefacts and models. Upon assessing our methodology
through a case study and measuring the effort reduction of using our tools, we conclude
that our system can be effective for the fast design and implementation of web services,
while it allows easy wrapping of services that have been engineered with traditional
methods to the MDE realm.
