---
name: CCIS2018
date: 2018-06-08
type: bookchapter
authors: Valasia Dimaridou, Alexandros-Charalampos Kyprianidis, Michail Papamichail, Themistoklis Diamantopoulos and Andreas L. Symeonidis
title: 'Assessing the User-Perceived Quality of Source Code Components using Static Analysis Metrics'
book: Communications in Computer and Information Science (CCIS)
volume: 868
pages: 3-27
bibtex: CCIS2018.bib
---

Nowadays, developers tend to adopt a component-based software engineering approach, reusing own
implementations and/or resorting to third-party source code. This practice is in principle
cost-effective, however it may also lead to low quality software products, if the components to
be reused exhibit low quality. Thus, several approaches have been developed to measure the
quality of software components. Most of them, however, rely on the aid of experts for defining
target quality scores and deriving metric thresholds, leading to results that are
context-dependent and subjective. In this work, we build a mechanism that employs static
analysis metrics extracted from GitHub projects and defines a target quality score based on
repositories' stars and forks, which indicate their adoption/acceptance by developers. Upon
removing outliers with a one-class classifier, we employ Principal Feature Analysis and examine
the semantics among metrics to provide an analysis on five axes for source code components
(classes or packages): complexity, coupling, size, degree of inheritance, and quality of
documentation. Neural networks are thus applied to estimate the final quality score given
metrics from these axes. Preliminary evaluation indicates that our approach effectively
estimates software quality at both class and package levels.

