---
name: EASE2025
date: 2025-06-18
type: conference
authors: Athanasios Michailoudis, Themistoklis Diamantopoulos, Antonios Favvas, and Andreas Symeonidis
title: 'Towards Effective Issue Assignment using Online Machine Learning'
conference: 29th International Conference on Evaluation and Assessment in Software Engineering (EASE)
pages: 1-6
location: Istanbul, Turkey
bibtex: EASE2025.bib
preprint: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.02437
code: https://github.com/AuthEceSoftEng/online-issues
---

Efficient issue assignment in software development relates to faster resolution time, resources
optimization, and reduced development effort. To this end, numerous systems have been developed to
automate issue assignment, including AI and machine learning approaches. Most of them, however,
often solely focus on a posteriori analyses of textual features (e.g. issue titles, descriptions),
disregarding the temporal characteristics of software development. Thus, they fail to adapt as
projects and teams evolve, such cases of team evolution, or project phase shifts (e.g. from
development to maintenance). To incorporate such cases in the issue assignment process, we propose
an Online Machine Learning methodology that adapts to the evolving characteristics of software
projects. Our system processes issues as a data stream, dynamically learning from new data and
adjusting in real time to changes in team composition and project requirements. We incorporate
metadata such as issue descriptions, components and labels and leverage adaptive drift detection
mechanisms to identify when model re-evaluation is necessary. Upon assessing our methodology on a
set of software projects, we conclude that it can be effective on issue assignment, while meeting
the evolving needs of software teams.
