---
name: EASE20252
date: 2025-06-19
type: conference
authors: Dimitrios-Nikitas Nastos, Themistoklis Diamantopoulos, Davide Tosi, Martina Tropeano, and Andreas Symeonidis
title: 'Towards an Interpretable Analysis for Estimating the Resolution Time of Software Issues'
conference: 29th International Conference on Evaluation and Assessment in Software Engineering (EASE)
pages: 1-6
location: Istanbul, Turkey
bibtex: EASE20252.bib
preprint: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.01108
code: https://github.com/AuthEceSoftEng/issues-fix-time
---

Lately, software development has become a predominantly online process, as more teams host and
monitor their projects remotely. Sophisticated approaches employ issue tracking systems like Jira,
predicting the time required to resolve issues and effectively assigning and prioritizing project
tasks. Several methods have been developed to address this challenge, widely known as bug-fix time
prediction, yet they exhibit significant limitations. Most consider only textual issue data and/or
use techniques that overlook the semantics and metadata of issues (e.g., priority or assignee
expertise). Many also fail to distinguish actual development effort from administrative delays,
including assignment and review phases, leading to estimates that do not reflect the true effort
needed. In this work, we build an issue monitoring system that extracts the actual effort required
to fix issues on a per-project basis. Our approach employs topic modeling to capture issue semantics
and leverages metadata (components, labels, priority, issue type, assignees) for interpretable
resolution time analysis. Final predictions are generated by an aggregated model, enabling
contributors to make informed decisions. Evaluation across multiple projects shows the system can
effectively estimate resolution time and provide valuable insights.
