---
name: FASE2020
date: 2020-04-25
type: conference
authors: Themistoklis Diamantopoulos, Nikolaos Oikonomou, and Andreas Symeonidis
title: 'Extracting Semantics from Question-Answering Services for Snippet Reuse'
conference: 23rd International Conference on Fundamental Approaches to Software Engineering (FASE)
pages: 119-139
location: Dublin, Ireland
bibtex: FASE2020.bib
preprint: https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/978-3-030-45234-6_6.pdf
code: https://github.com/AuthEceSoftEng/StackSearch
---

Nowadays, software developers typically search online for reusable solutions to common 
programming problems. However, forming the question appropriately, and locating and 
integrating the best solution back to the code can be tricky and time consuming. As a 
result, several mining systems have been proposed to aid developers in the task of 
locating reusable snippets and integrating them into their source code. Most of these 
systems, however, do not model the semantics of the snippets in the context of source 
code provided. In this work, we propose a snippet mining system, named StackSearch, 
that extracts semantic information from Stack Overlow posts and recommends useful and 
in-context snippets to the developer. Using a hybrid language model that combines Tf-Idf 
and fastText, our system effectively understands the meaning of the given query and 
retrieves semantically similar posts. Moreover, the results are accompanied with useful 
metadata using a named entity recognition technique. Upon evaluating our system in a set 
of common programming queries, in a dataset based on post links, and against a similar 
tool, we argue that our approach can be useful for recommending ready-to-use snippets to 
the developer.
