---
name: FASE2022
date: 2022-04-04
type: conference
authors: Evangelos Papathomas, Themistoklis Diamantopoulos, and Andreas Symeonidis
title: 'Semantic Code Search in Software Repositories using Neural Machine Translation'
conference: 25th International Conference on Fundamental Approaches to Software Engineering (FASE)
pages: 225-244
location: Munich, Germany
bibtex: FASE2022.bib
preprint: https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/978-3-030-99429-7_13.pdf
code: https://github.com/AuthEceSoftEng/CodeTransformer
---

Nowadays, software development is accelerated through the reuse of code snippets found
online in question-answering platforms and software repositories. In order to be efficient,
this process requires forming an appropriate query and identifying the most suitable code
snippet, which can sometimes be challenging and particularly time-consuming. Over the last
years, several code recommendation systems have been developed to offer a solution to this
problem. Nevertheless, most of them recommend API calls or sequences instead of reusable
code snippets. Furthermore, they do not employ architectures advanced enough to exploit the
semantics of natural language and code in order to form the optimal query from the question
posed. To overcome these issues, we propose CodeTransformer, a code recommendation system
that provides useful, reusable code snippets extracted from open-source GitHub repositories.
By employing a neural network architecture that comprises advanced attention mechanisms,
our system effectively understands and models natural language queries and code snippets in
a joint vector space. Upon evaluating CodeTransformer quantitatively against a similar
system and qualitatively using a dataset from Stack Overflow, we conclude that our approach
can recommend useful and reusable snippets to developers.
