---
name: RSCY2025
date: 2025-09-19
type: conference
authors: Themistoklis Diamantopoulos, Dimitrios-Nikitas Nastos, Athanasios Michailoudis, and Andreas Symeonidis
title: 'Towards a Big Data Infrastructure and Monitoring Dashboard for the Food Security Domain'
conference: Eleventh International Conference on Remote Sensing and Geoinformation of the Environment (RSCy2025)
pages: 138160N
location: Paphos, Cyprus
bibtex: RSCY2025.bib
preprint: https://www.spiedigitallibrary.org/proceedings/Download?urlId=10.1117/12.3073261
code: https://github.com/AuthEceSoftEng/ecoready-observatory
---

Lately, food security has been identified as a topmost priority for the European Union, which
entails different challenges. Transitioning to a sustainable food system involves reliable access
to nutritious food for consumers, ensuring the economic protection of producers, and monitoring
the food supply chain with respect to environmental sustainability and biodiversity. In this
context, several global and European initiatives have emerged to gather useful data in this
domain, however extracting actionable knowledge from these data is not trivial. In this work, we
design a Digital Observatory with the aim of confronting these challenges by combining and
analyzing data from different sources. Our observatory integrates both EU/governmental level
datasets and regional data from a network of Living Labs. Its backend comprises a fault-tolerant
scalable infrastructure, which processes data as streams of events using state-of-practice
technologies, and allows online calculation of useful statistics and application of mining
algorithms. The user interface of the observatory is an intuitive dashboard that allows
visualizing the data, detecting patterns and identifying correlations among different variables.
The dashboard further includes an interactive map with layers that depict useful statistics for
different regions of Europe.
