---
name: SPE2024
date: 2024-10-24
type: journal
authors: Michael Karatzas, Themistoklis Diamantopoulos and Andreas Symeonidis
title: 'Extracting Fix Patterns for Static Analysis Violations Based on Collective Developer Knowledge'
journal: 'Software: Practice and Experience'
pages: 1-17
bibtex: SPE2024.bib
preprint: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1002/spe.3384
code: https://github.com/AuthEceSoftEng/violation-fixes
---

Much of the effort spent on software development is allocated on detecting and fixing bugs or, more generally,
violations that lead to erroneous or inefficient code. Although static analysis tools aspire to automate bug
detection, their usage is typically limited to code style rules and typical violations, while they only provide
generic instructions for bug fixing. As a result, contemporary approaches focus on extracting bug-fix patterns
from source code revisions (commits). In this work, we build a methodology that extracts fix patterns for
violations detected by the PMD static analysis tool. In contrast to current approaches, which employ specific
data sources and focus on particular violations, our system extracts source code edits from multiple GitHub
repositories and maps them into 36 different types of violations. By employing a detailed syntax tree
representation and a tree edit distance technique, we build a similarity scheme for source code edits, which
is used to group them into clusters. We employ two clustering algorithms, K-medoids and DBSCAN, and further
optimize them using a purity metric to produce clusters that correspond to specific fixes. Our evaluation
indicates that DBSCAN extracts more cohesive clusters (purity more than 0.9), which effectively target specific
PMD rules, while K-medoids extracts generic clusters (purity around 0.7) that pinpoint common edits. Finally,
upon analyzing the diversity of the sources from which fixes are derived (commits and repositories), we
conclude that they are generic enough to reflect how similar issues are dealt with by the developer community.
